<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# terraform-azurerm-avm-ptn-network-private-link-private-dns-zones

This module deploys all known Azure Private DNS Zones for Azure Services that support Private Link as documented and detailed here in [Azure Private Endpoint private DNS zone values](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-dns).

The module also has logic built in to it to handle the replacements of the following strings in the Private DNS Zone Names to the appropriate Azure Region name, short name or geo-code as required:

- `...{regionName}...`
- `...{regionCode}...`

> [!NOTE]
> This module only supports Azure Public/Commercial today and **NOT** Azure US Government Cloud (a.k.a. Fairfax) or Azure China Cloud (a.k.a. Mooncake). If you would like to see support added for these clouds please raise an issue/feature request on this repo/module.

## Migrating from versions `v0.17.0` and prior to `v0.18.0` and later

Versions `v0.17.0` and prior of this module used `azurerm` as its primary provider as the version of the `Azure/avm-res-network-privatednszone/azurerm` module it leveraged was built using `azurerm` as its primary provider also.

As of version `v0.18.0` and later of this module, the module has been re-architected to use `azapi` as its primary provider as the version of the `Azure/avm-res-network-privatednszone/azurerm` module (`v0.4.1`) it now leverages is built using `azapi` as its primary provider also.

> Version `v0.18.0` of this module includes support for the Resolution Policy on the Private DNS Zone Virtual Network Links to allow for NXDomain Redirects to be configured, as documented in [Fallback to internet for Azure Private DNS zones](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/dns/private-dns-fallback); see the new input properties in the `private_link_private_dns_zones` (`private_dns_zone_supports_private_link`), `private_link_private_dns_zones_additional` (`private_dns_zone_supports_private_link`), and `virtual_network_links` (`resolution_policy`) input variables.

This means that if you are using version `v0.17.0` or prior of this module and wish to upgrade to version `v0.18.0` or later, you will need to make some changes to your code to complete a successful upgrade.

Whilst we have used `moved` blocks in the module itself, see [`moved.tf`](moved.tf), to help with the migration, we have only been able to do this for the resources that are default created by the module. These are:

- The Private Link Private DNS Zones declared in the default value of the `private_link_private_dns_zones` input variable.
- The Resource Group created by the module if you are not using an existing Resource Group, as controlled by the `resource_group_creation_enabled` input variable.

For other resources that can be created by this module, you will need to declare your own `moved` blocks in your code (root module) to help with the migration. These resources are:

- Private DNS Zones declared in the `private_link_private_dns_zones_additional` input variable.
- Private DNS Zones Virtual Network Links declared in the `virtual_network_links` input variable.
- Role Assignments created on the Resource Group declared in the `resource_group_role_assignments` input variable.
- Locks created on the Resource Group declared in the `lock` input variable.

> You may decide it is not worth migrating some of these resources and instead allow Terraform to delete and recreate them. Such as the Role Assignments and Locks on the Resource Group. However, you should consider the impact of this before doing so based on your understanding of your environment and code.

To help with this we have provided some example `moved` blocks that you can copy, paste, and amend/edit into your code (root module) to help with the migration. You can find these example `moved` blocks in the following example's `main.tf` files:

- [custom-zones-vnet-link-existing-rg-including-moved-blocks](examples/custom-zones-vnet-link-existing-rg-including-moved-blocks/main.tf) - lines `106` onwards
- [with-vnet-link-existing-rg-including-moved-blocks](examples/with-vnet-link-existing-rg-including-moved-blocks/main.tf) - lines `104` onwards

You will also note that there are a number of new resources to be created relating to telemetry and the `modtm` provider, these do not need any `moved` blocks and are expected to be created as new resources to improve our AVM modules telemetry and insights.

If you have any questions or need any help with the migration please raise an issue on this repo/module and we will do our best to help. However, we believe we have provided comprehensive guidance and examples to help with the migration to prevent the deletion of critical resources.

---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As the overall AVM framework is not GA (generally available) yet - the CI framework and test automation is not fully functional and implemented across all supported languages yet - breaking changes are expected, and additional customer feedback is yet to be gathered and incorporated. Hence, modules **MUST NOT** be published at version `1.0.0` or higher at this time.
>
> All module **MUST** be published as a pre-release version (e.g., `0.1.0`, `0.1.1`, `0.2.0`, etc.) until the AVM framework becomes GA.
>
> However, it is important to note that this **DOES NOT** mean that the modules cannot be consumed and utilized. They **CAN** be leveraged in all types of environments (dev, test, prod etc.). Consumers can treat them just like any other IaC module and raise issues or feature requests against them as they learn from the usage of the module. Consumers should also read the release notes for each version, if considering updating to a more recent version of a module to see if there are any considerations or breaking changes etc.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (>= 1.9, < 2.0)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.4)

- <a name="requirement_modtm"></a> [modtm](#requirement\_modtm) (~> 0.3)

- <a name="requirement_random"></a> [random](#requirement\_random) (>= 3.5.1, < 5.0)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.lock](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.role_assignments](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [modtm_telemetry.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/modtm/latest/docs/resources/telemetry) (resource)
- [random_uuid.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/uuid) (resource)
- [azapi_client_config.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [modtm_module_source.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/modtm/latest/docs/data-sources/module_source) (data source)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_location"></a> [location](#input\_location)

Description: Azure region where the each of the Private Link Private DNS Zones created and Resource Group, if created, will be deployed.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_parent_id"></a> [parent\_id](#input\_parent\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the existing Resource Group. e.g. `/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}/resourceGroups/{resourceGroupName}`.

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

The following input variables are optional (have default values):

### <a name="input_enable_telemetry"></a> [enable\_telemetry](#input\_enable\_telemetry)

Description: This variable controls whether or not telemetry is enabled for the module.  
For more information see <https://aka.ms/avm/telemetryinfo>.  
If it is set to false, then no telemetry will be collected.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_lock"></a> [lock](#input\_lock)

Description: Controls the Resource Lock configuration for the Resource Group that hosts the Private DNS Zones. The following properties can be specified:

- `kind` - (Required) The type of lock. Possible values are `\"CanNotDelete\"` and `\"ReadOnly\"`.
- `name` - (Optional) The name of the lock. If not specified, a name will be generated based on the `kind` value. Changing this forces the creation of a new resource.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    kind = string
    name = optional(string, null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_private_link_excluded_zones"></a> [private\_link\_excluded\_zones](#input\_private\_link\_excluded\_zones)

Description: A set of Private Link Private DNS Zones to exclude. Either DNS zone names or the `private_link_private_dns_zones` map key name (e.g. 'azure\_ml') must match what is provided as the default values or any input to the private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones parameter e.g. privatelink.api.azureml.ms or privatelink.{regionCode}.backup.windowsazure.com or azure\_ml.

Type: `set(string)`

Default: `[]`

### <a name="input_private_link_private_dns_zones"></a> [private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones](#input\_private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones)

Description: A set of Private Link Private DNS Zones to create. Each element must be a valid DNS zone name.

- `zone_name` - The name of the Private Link Private DNS Zone to create. This can include placeholders for the region code and region name, which will be replaced with the appropriate values based on the `location` variable.
- `private_dns_zone_supports_private_link` - (Optional) Whether the Private Link Private DNS Zone supports Private Link. Defaults to `true`.
- `custom_iterator` - (Optional) An object that defines a custom iterator for the Private Link Private DNS Zone. This is used to create multiple Private Link Private DNS Zones with the same base name but different replacements. The object must contain:
  - `replacement_placeholder` - The placeholder to replace in the `zone_name` with the custom replacement value.
  - `replacement_values` - A map of values to use for the custom iterator, where the value is the value to replace in the `zone_name`.
- `resolution_policy` - (Optional) The resolution policy for the private link private dns zone to override the value specified in the `virtual_network_links` variable for a private link private DNS zone's virtual network link. Possible values are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`.

**NOTE:**

- Private Link Private DNS Zones that have `{{regionCode}}` in the name will be replaced with the Geo Code of the Region you specified in the `location` variable, if available, as documented [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-dns#:~:text=Note-,In%20the%20above%20text%2C%20%7BregionCode%7D%20refers%20to%20the%20region%20code%20(for%20example%2C%20eus%20for%20East%20US%20and%20ne%20for%20North%20Europe).%20Refer%20to%20the%20following%20lists%20for%20regions%20codes%3A,-All%20public%20clouds).
  - e.g. If `UK South` or `uksouth` was specified as the region in the `location` variable, `{{regionCode}}` would be replaced with `uks` in the Private DNS Zone name.
- Private Link Private DNS Zones that have `{{regionName}}` in the name will be replaced with the short name of the Region you specified in the `location` variable, if available, as documented [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/private-link/private-endpoint-dns).
  - e.g. If `UK South` or `uksouth` was specified as the region in the `location` variable, `{{regionName}}` would be replaced with `uksouth` in the Private DNS Zone name.

**IMPORTANT:**

The folowing Private Link Private DNS Zones have been removed from the default value for this variable as they require additional placeholders to be replaced that will only be known by the caller of the module at runtime and cannot be determined by the module itself. If you have a requirement to create these Private Link Private DNS Zones, you must provide the full list of Private Link Private DNS Zones to create as a set in the `private_link_private_dns_zones` variable, using the default value as a reference. The list of Private Link Private DNS Zones that have been removed are:

- `{subzone}.privatelink.{regionName}.azmk8s.io`
- `privatelink.{dnsPrefix}.database.windows.net`

We have also removed the following Private Link Private DNS Zones from the default value for this variable as they should only be created and used with in specific scenarios:

- `privatelink.azure.com`

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    zone_name                              = optional(string, null)
    private_dns_zone_supports_private_link = optional(bool, true)
    custom_iterator = optional(object({
      replacement_placeholder = string
      replacement_values      = map(string)
    }))
    resolution_policy = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default:

```json
{
  "azure_acr_registry": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azurecr.io"
  },
  "azure_ai_cog_svcs": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.cognitiveservices.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_ai_oai": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.openai.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_ai_services": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.services.ai.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_aks_mgmt": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.{regionName}.azmk8s.io"
  },
  "azure_api_management": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azure-api.net"
  },
  "azure_app_configuration": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azconfig.io"
  },
  "azure_app_service": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azurewebsites.net"
  },
  "azure_arc_guest_configuration": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.guestconfiguration.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_arc_hybrid_compute": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.his.arc.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_arc_kubernetes": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.dp.kubernetesconfiguration.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_attestation": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.attest.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_automation": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azure-automation.net"
  },
  "azure_avd_feed_mgmt": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.wvd.microsoft.com"
  },
  "azure_avd_global": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink-global.wvd.microsoft.com"
  },
  "azure_backup": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.{regionCode}.backup.windowsazure.com"
  },
  "azure_batch": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.batch.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_bot_svc_bot": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.directline.botframework.com"
  },
  "azure_bot_svc_token": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.token.botframework.com"
  },
  "azure_container_apps": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.{regionName}.azurecontainerapps.io"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_analytical": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.analytics.cosmos.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_cassandra": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.cassandra.cosmos.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_gremlin": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.gremlin.cosmos.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_mongo": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.mongo.cosmos.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_mongo_vcore": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.mongocluster.cosmos.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_postgres": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.postgres.cosmos.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_sql": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.documents.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_cosmos_db_table": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.table.cosmos.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_data_explorer": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.{regionName}.kusto.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_data_factory": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.datafactory.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_data_factory_portal": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.adf.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_data_lake_gen2": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.dfs.core.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_databricks_ui_api": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azuredatabricks.net"
  },
  "azure_digital_twins": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.digitaltwins.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_event_grid": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.eventgrid.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_fabric": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.fabric.microsoft.com"
  },
  "azure_file_sync": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.afs.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_grafana": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.grafana.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_hdinsight": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azurehdinsight.net"
  },
  "azure_healthcare": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azurehealthcareapis.com"
  },
  "azure_healthcare_dicom": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.dicom.azurehealthcareapis.com"
  },
  "azure_healthcare_fhir": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.fhir.azurehealthcareapis.com"
  },
  "azure_healthcare_workspaces": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.workspace.azurehealthcareapis.com"
  },
  "azure_iot_central": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azureiotcentral.com"
  },
  "azure_iot_hub": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azure-devices.net"
  },
  "azure_iot_hub_provisioning": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azure-devices-provisioning.net"
  },
  "azure_iot_hub_update": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.api.adu.microsoft.com"
  },
  "azure_key_vault": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.vaultcore.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_log_analytics": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.oms.opinsights.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_log_analytics_data": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.ods.opinsights.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_managed_hsm": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.managedhsm.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_managed_prometheus": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.{regionName}.prometheus.monitor.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_maria_db_server": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.mariadb.database.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_media_services_delivery": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.media.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_migration_service": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.prod.migration.windowsazure.com"
  },
  "azure_ml": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.api.azureml.ms"
  },
  "azure_ml_notebooks": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.notebooks.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_monitor": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.monitor.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_monitor_agent": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.agentsvc.azure-automation.net"
  },
  "azure_mysql_db_server": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.mysql.database.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_postgres_sql_server": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.postgres.database.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_power_bi_dedicated": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.pbidedicated.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_power_bi_power_query": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.tip1.powerquery.microsoft.com"
  },
  "azure_power_bi_tenant_analysis": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.analysis.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_purview_account": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.purview.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_purview_studio": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.purviewstudio.azure.com"
  },
  "azure_redis_cache": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.redis.cache.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_redis_enterprise": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.redisenterprise.cache.azure.net"
  },
  "azure_search": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.search.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_service_hub": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.servicebus.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_signalr_service": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.service.signalr.net"
  },
  "azure_site_recovery": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.siterecovery.windowsazure.com"
  },
  "azure_sql_server": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.database.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_static_web_apps": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azurestaticapps.net"
  },
  "azure_static_web_apps_partitioned": {
    "custom_iterator": {
      "replacement_placeholder": "partitionId",
      "replacement_values": {
        "1": "1",
        "2": "2",
        "3": "3",
        "4": "4",
        "5": "5"
      }
    },
    "zone_name": "privatelink.{partitionId}.azurestaticapps.net"
  },
  "azure_storage_blob": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.blob.core.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_storage_file": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.file.core.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_storage_queue": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.queue.core.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_storage_table": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.table.core.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_storage_web": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.web.core.windows.net"
  },
  "azure_synapse": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.azuresynapse.net"
  },
  "azure_synapse_dev": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.dev.azuresynapse.net"
  },
  "azure_synapse_sql": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.sql.azuresynapse.net"
  },
  "azure_web_pubsub": {
    "zone_name": "privatelink.webpubsub.azure.com"
  }
}
```

### <a name="input_private_link_private_dns_zones_additional"></a> [private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones\_additional](#input\_private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones\_additional)

Description: A set of Private Link Private DNS Zones to create in addition to the zones supplied in `private_link_private_dns_zones`. Each element must be a valid DNS zone name.

The purpose of this variable is to allow the use of our default zones and just add any additional zones without having to redefine the entire set of default zones.

- `zone_name` - The name of the Private Link Private DNS Zone to create. This can include placeholders for the region code and region name, which will be replaced with the appropriate values based on the `location` variable.
- `private_dns_zone_supports_private_link` - (Optional) Whether the Private Link Private DNS Zone supports Private Link. Defaults to `true`.
- `custom_iterator` - (Optional) An object that defines a custom iterator for the Private Link Private DNS Zone. This is used to create multiple Private Link Private DNS Zones with the same base name but different replacements. The object must contain:
  - `replacement_placeholder` - The placeholder to replace in the `zone_name` with the custom iterator replacement value.
  - `replacement_values` - A map of values to use for the custom iterator, where the value is the value to replace in the `zone_name`.
- `resolution_policy` - (Optional) The resolution policy for the private link private dns zone to override the value specified in the `virtual_network_links` variable for a private link private DNS zone's virtual network link. Possible values are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    zone_name                              = optional(string, null)
    private_dns_zone_supports_private_link = optional(bool, true)
    custom_iterator = optional(object({
      replacement_placeholder = string
      replacement_values      = map(string)
    }))
    resolution_policy = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_private_link_private_dns_zones_regex_filter"></a> [private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones\_regex\_filter](#input\_private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones\_regex\_filter)

Description: This variable controls whether or not the Private Link Private DNS Zones should be filtered based on the zone name. If enabled, the `regex_filter` will be used to filter the Private Link Private DNS Zones based on the zone name.
- `enabled` - (Optional) Whether to enable filtering of the Private Link Private DNS Zones. Defaults to `false`.
- `regex_filter` - (Optional) The regular expression filter to apply to the Private Link Private DNS Zones. The default value is `{regionName}|{regionCode}`, which will filter for regional Private Link Private DNS Zones often needed for secondary regions. You can specify a custom filter to match your requirements.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    enabled      = optional(bool, false)
    regex_filter = optional(string, "{regionName}|{regionCode}")
  })
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_resource_group_role_assignments"></a> [resource\_group\_role\_assignments](#input\_resource\_group\_role\_assignments)

Description: A map of role assignments to create on the Resource Group. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `role_definition_id_or_name` - The ID or name of the role definition to assign to the principal.
- `principal_id` - The ID of the principal to assign the role to.
- `principal_type` - (Optional) The type of the principal. Possible values are `User`, `Group`, and `ServicePrincipal`. It is necessary to explicitly set this attribute when creating role assignments if the principal creating the assignment is constrained by ABAC rules that filters on the PrincipalType attribute.
- `description` - The description of the role assignment.
- `skip_service_principal_aad_check` - If set to true, skips the Entra ID check for the service principal in the tenant. Defaults to `false`.
- `condition` - The condition which will be used to scope the role assignment.
- `condition_version` - The version of the condition syntax. Valid values are '2.0'.

> Note: only set `skip_service_principal_aad_check` to true if you are assigning a role to a service principal.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    role_definition_id_or_name             = string
    principal_id                           = string
    principal_type                         = optional(string, null)
    description                            = optional(string, null)
    skip_service_principal_aad_check       = optional(bool, false)
    condition                              = optional(string, null)
    condition_version                      = optional(string, null)
    delegated_managed_identity_resource_id = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags)

Description: (Optional) Tags of the resource.

Type: `map(string)`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_timeouts"></a> [timeouts](#input\_timeouts)

Description: A map of timeouts objects, per resource type, to apply to the creation and destruction of resources the following resources:

- `dns_zones` - (Optional) The timeouts for DNS Zones.
- `vnet_links` - (Optional) The timeouts for DNS Zones Virtual Network Links.

Each timeout object has the following optional attributes:

- `create` - (Optional) The timeout for creating the resource. Defaults to `5m` apart from policy assignments, where this is set to `15m`.
- `delete` - (Optional) The timeout for deleting the resource. Defaults to `5m`.
- `update` - (Optional) The timeout for updating the resource. Defaults to `5m`.
- `read` - (Optional) The timeout for reading the resource. Defaults to `5m`.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    dns_zones = optional(object({
      create = optional(string, "30m")
      delete = optional(string, "30m")
      update = optional(string, "30m")
      read   = optional(string, "5m")
      }), {}
    )
    vnet_links = optional(object({
      create = optional(string, "30m")
      delete = optional(string, "30m")
      update = optional(string, "30m")
      read   = optional(string, "5m")
      }), {}
    )
  })
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_link_defaults"></a> [virtual\_network\_link\_defaults](#input\_virtual\_network\_link\_defaults)

Description: A map of objects of Virtual Network Resource IDs to link to all the Private Link Private DNS Zones created. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `virtual_network_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the Virtual Network to link to the Private Link Private DNS Zones created to.
- `virtual_network_link_name_template_override` - (Optional) A template to override the default name of the virtual network link. If this option is not provided, the default of `var.virtual_network_link_name_template` will be used. The template can include the following placeholders:
    - `{zone_key}` - The map key of the Private DNS Zone.
    - `{vnet_name}` - The name of the virtual network.
    - `{vnet_key}` - The map key of the virtual network link.
    - `{location}` - The location of the resource group where the Private DNS Zone is created. In the case of multi-region deployment, this may refer to the primary region only. The `vnet_name` may be better suited to identify the VNet location in such cases.
- `resolution_policy` - (Optional) The resolution policy for the Virtual Network Link. Possible values are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`. If not specified, the value from `virtual_network_link_overrides_by_zone`, `virtual_network_link_overrides_by_virtual_network`, `virtual_network_link_overrides`, `private_link_dns_zones`, `private_link_dns_zones_additional`, or `virtual_network_link_resolution_policy_default` variable will be used in that precedence.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    virtual_network_resource_id                 = optional(string)
    virtual_network_link_name_template_override = optional(string)
    resolution_policy                           = optional(string)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_link_for_zone"></a> [virtual\_network\_link\_for\_zone](#input\_virtual\_network\_link\_for\_zone)

Description: A map of maps of objects of Virtual Network Resource IDs to link to specific Private Link Private DNS Zones. This is designed to be used in conjunction with `virtual_network_link_defaults` to link specific zones to other virtual networks.

This is merged with the `virtual_network_link_defaults` after `virtual_network_link_overrides_by_zone` and `virtual_network_link_overrides_by_virtual_network` has been applied to create the final set of virtual network links for each Private DNS Zone.

The first key is the the Private DNS Zone map key from the `private_link_private_dns_zones` or `private_link_private_dns_zones_additional` variables.

The second key is an arbitrary map key for the Virtual Network Link. If this key matches a key in the `virtual_network_link_defaults` variable, this entry will take precedence.

- `virtual_network_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the Virtual Network to link to the Private Link Private DNS Zones created to.
- `name` - (Optional) The name of the virtual network link.
- `resolution_policy` -  (Optional) The resolution policy for the Virtual Network Link. Possible values are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`. If not specified, the value from `virtual_network_link_overrides`, `private_link_dns_zones`, `private_link_dns_zones_additional`, or `virtual_network_link_resolution_policy_default` variable will be used in that precedence

Type:

```hcl
map(map(object({
    virtual_network_resource_id = optional(string)
    name                        = optional(string)
    resolution_policy           = optional(string)
  })))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_link_name_template"></a> [virtual\_network\_link\_name\_template](#input\_virtual\_network\_link\_name\_template)

Description: A prefix to use for the names of the Virtual Network Links created. A template for the default name of the virtual network link. The template can include the following placeholders:
    - `{zone_key}` - The map key of the Private DNS Zone.
    - `{vnet_name}` - The name of the virtual network the link is associated with.
    - `{vnet_key}` - The map key of the virtual network link.
    - `{location}` - The location of the resource group where the Private DNS Zone is created. In the case of multi-region deployment, this may refer to the primary region only. The `vnet_name` may be better suited to identify the VNet location in such cases.

Type: `string`

Default: `"vnet_link-${zone_key}-${vnet_key}"`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_link_overrides_by_virtual_network"></a> [virtual\_network\_link\_overrides\_by\_virtual\_network](#input\_virtual\_network\_link\_overrides\_by\_virtual\_network)

Description: A map of overrides for the default Virtual Network Links applied per virtual network.

This is applied to all virtual network links, including those defined in the `virtual_network_link_defaults` and `virtual_network_link_by_zone`.

The precedence order of overrides is `virtual_network_link_override_by_virtual_network`, `virtual_network_link_override_by_zone`, and then `virtual_network_link_overrides_by_zone_and_virtual_network`.

The key is the Virtual Network Link map key from the `virtual_network_link_defaults` or the second map key from `virtual_network_link_for_zone`.

- `virtual_network_link_name_template_override` - (Optional) A template to override the default name of the virtual network link. The template can include the following placeholders:
    - `{zone_key}` - The map key of the Private DNS Zone.
    - `{vnet_name}` - The name of the virtual network.
    - `{vnet_key}` - The map key of the virtual network link.
    - `{location}` - The location of the resource group where the Private DNS Zone is created. In the case of multi-region deployment, this may refer to the primary region only. The `vnet_name` may be better suited to identify the VNet location in such cases.
- `resolution_policy` - (Optional) The resolution policy for the Virtual Network Link. Possible values are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`.
- `enabled` - (Optional) Whether the virtual network link is enabled. Defaults to `true`.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    virtual_network_link_name_template_override = optional(string)
    resolution_policy                           = optional(string)
    enabled                                     = optional(bool, true)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_link_overrides_by_zone"></a> [virtual\_network\_link\_overrides\_by\_zone](#input\_virtual\_network\_link\_overrides\_by\_zone)

Description: A map of overrides for the default Virtual Network Links applied per DNS zone.

This is applied to all virtual network links, including those defined in the `virtual_network_link_defaults` and `virtual_network_link_by_zone`.

The precedence order of overrides is `virtual_network_link_override_by_virtual_network`, `virtual_network_link_override_by_zone`, and then `virtual_network_link_overrides_by_zone_and_virtual_network`.

The key is the the Private DNS Zone map key from the `private_link_private_dns_zones` or `private_link_private_dns_zones_additional` variables.

- `virtual_network_link_name_template_override` - (Optional) A template to override the default name of the virtual network link. The template can include the following placeholders:
    - `{zone_key}` - The map key of the Private DNS Zone.
    - `{vnet_name}` - The name of the virtual network.
    - `{vnet_key}` - The map key of the virtual network link.
    - `{location}` - The location of the resource group where the Private DNS Zone is created. In the case of multi-region deployment, this may refer to the primary region only. The `vnet_name` may be better suited to identify the VNet location in such cases.
- `resolution_policy` - (Optional) The resolution policy for the Virtual Network Link. Possible values are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`.
- `enabled` - (Optional) Whether the virtual network link is enabled. Defaults to `true`.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    virtual_network_link_name_template_override = optional(string)
    resolution_policy                           = optional(string)
    enabled                                     = optional(bool, true)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_link_overrides_by_zone_and_virtual_network"></a> [virtual\_network\_link\_overrides\_by\_zone\_and\_virtual\_network](#input\_virtual\_network\_link\_overrides\_by\_zone\_and\_virtual\_network)

Description: A map of overrides for the default Virtual Network Links applied per DNS zone and Virtual Network.

This is applied to all virtual network links, including those defined in the `virtual_network_link_defaults` and `virtual_network_link_by_zone`.

The precedence order of overrides is `virtual_network_link_override_by_virtual_network`, `virtual_network_link_override_by_zone`, and then `virtual_network_link_overrides_by_zone_and_virtual_network`.

The first key is the the Private DNS Zone map key from the `private_link_private_dns_zones` or `private_link_private_dns_zones_additional` variables.

The second key is the Virtual Network Link map key from `virtual_network_link_defaults` or the second map key from `virtual_network_link_for_zone`.

- `name` - (Optional) The name of the virtual network link to override the default name.
- `resolution_policy` - (Optional) The resolution policy for the Virtual Network Link. Possible value are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`.
- `enabled` - (Optional) Whether the virtual network link is enabled. Defaults to `true`.

Type:

```hcl
map(map(object({
    name              = optional(string)
    resolution_policy = optional(string)
    enabled           = optional(bool, true)
  })))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_link_resolution_policy_default"></a> [virtual\_network\_link\_resolution\_policy\_default](#input\_virtual\_network\_link\_resolution\_policy\_default)

Description: The default resolution policy for the Virtual Network Links created. Possible values are `Default` and `NxDomainRedirect`. If a specific private DNS zone requires a different resolution policy, this can be overridden by assigning the `resolution_policy` attribute in the specific Private DNS Zone's declaration.

Type: `string`

Default: `"Default"`

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_private_dns_zone_resource_ids"></a> [private\_dns\_zone\_resource\_ids](#output\_private\_dns\_zone\_resource\_ids)

Description: The map of private DNS zones to resource ids.

### <a name="output_private_link_private_dns_zones_map"></a> [private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones\_map](#output\_private\_link\_private\_dns\_zones\_map)

Description: The final map of private link private DNS zones to link to virtual networks including the region name replacements as required.

### <a name="output_resource_group_resource_id"></a> [resource\_group\_resource\_id](#output\_resource\_group\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the resource group that the Private DNS Zones are deployed into.

## Modules

The following Modules are called:

### <a name="module_avm_interfaces"></a> [avm\_interfaces](#module\_avm\_interfaces)

Source: Azure/avm-utl-interfaces/azure

Version: 0.5.0

### <a name="module_avm_res_network_privatednszone"></a> [avm\_res\_network\_privatednszone](#module\_avm\_res\_network\_privatednszone)

Source: Azure/avm-res-network-privatednszone/azurerm

Version: 0.4.2

### <a name="module_regions"></a> [regions](#module\_regions)

Source: Azure/avm-utl-regions/azurerm

Version: 0.9.2

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->